Add guidance for understanding unfunded mentors (#2572)
DFE-Digital/register-early-career-teachers-public: app/views/api/guidance/guidance_for_lead_providers/understanding_unfunded_mentors.md

---
title: Understanding unfunded mentors
sidebar_position: 12
---
This guidance explains:
- what an unfunded mentor is
- how to manage an unfunded mentor

> - how to identify an unfunded mentor

Author: ```suggestion
- how to identify an unfunded mentor
- how to manage an unfunded mentor
```

Reviewer: Managing needs to be removed, right? The section is removed below

Author: Updated.

```suggestion
- how to identify an unfunded mentor
```

## What is an unfunded mentor?
Unfunded mentors are mentors who are mentoring ECTs that a lead provider trains, but are not eligible for funded training through that lead provider. This is typically because they have completed, or are currently doing, mentor training with a different lead provider.

> (PLACE HOLDER FOR EXAMPLE(S) FROM CLAIRE)

Author: ```suggestion
For example, a lead provider might be training an ECT named Bob. Bob is assigned Laura as a mentor. Laura has already completed training with a different lead provider. As a result, she would appear as an unfunded mentor to the lead provider via the API, because they would not be funded for providing her with mentor training.

Laura's details are shown to the lead provider via the API so they can set her up in their learning platform to support Bob. The lead provider could identify Laura as Bob's mentor by using the 'mentor_id' for Bob in 'GET /participants'.
```

> (PLACE HOLDER FOR EXAMPLE(S) FROM CLAIRE)

Author: Updated.

---
title: Understanding unfunded mentors
sidebar_position: 12
---
This guidance explains:

> - what an unfunded mentor is

Author: ```suggestion

- what an unfunded mentor is
```

> - how to identify an unfunded mentor

Reviewer: this isnt populating correctly, think there needs to be a break between the first line and bullet

<img width="658" height="177" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/56498b55-9b78-42a1-8ccf-d991d5798861" />

I can see this issue in other places too

<img width="1440" height="372" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/a6ccbdfe-0ea0-4aaf-acf4-6b8cd4fe3efd" />

## What is an unfunded mentor?

> Unfunded mentors are mentors who are mentoring ECTs that a lead provider trains, but are not eligible for funded training through that lead provider. This is typically because they have completed, or are currently doing, mentor training with a different lead provider.

Author: ```suggestion
Unfunded mentors are mentors who are mentoring ECTs that a lead provider trains, but are not eligible for funded training through that lead provider. This is typically because they have already completed mentor training, or are currently doing so, with a different lead provider.
```

Lead providers will be funded to give these mentors access to learning materials and platforms so that they can support ECTs they are mentoring.

For example, a lead provider might be training an ECT named Bob. Bob is assigned Laura as a mentor. Laura has already completed training with a different lead provider. As a result, she would appear as an unfunded mentor to the lead provider via the API, because they would not be funded for providing her with mentor training.

Laura's details are shown to the lead provider via the API so they can set her up in their learning platform to support Bob. The lead provider could identify Laura as Bob's mentor by using the 'mentor_id' for Bob in 'GET /participants'.

### What an unfunded mentor isn't
An unfunded mentor is not:

> - a mentor who lead provider is currently training

Author: ```suggestion

- a mentor who lead a provider is currently training
```

Laura's details are shown to the lead provider via the API so they can set her up in their learning platform to support Bob. The lead provider could identify Laura as Bob's mentor by using the 'mentor_id' for Bob in 'GET /participants'.

### What an unfunded mentor isn't
An unfunded mentor is not:
- a mentor who lead provider is currently training
- a mentor who a lead provider used to train but is no longer training
For example, if a lead provider used to provide mentor training for a mentor named Sarah, and she completed training but was still actively mentoring ECTs, she would:

- no longer be eligible for any more funded training
- still require access to learning platforms or systems to support any ECTs the lead provider was training that she continued to mentor

The lead provider was previously funded for her training, so she would not appear via the 'GET /unfunded-mentors' endpoint. Lead providers could identify Sarah as the mentor for ECTs they were training by using the 'mentor_id' for those ECTs in 'GET /participants'.

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

Unfunded mentors are mentors who are mentoring ECTs that a lead provider trains, but are not eligible for funded training through that lead provider. This is typically because they have already completed mentor training, or are currently doing so, with a different lead provider.

Lead providers will be funded to give these mentors access to learning materials and platforms so that they can support ECTs they are mentoring.

For example, a lead provider might be training an ECT named Bob. Bob is assigned Laura as a mentor. Laura has already completed training with a different lead provider. As a result, she would appear as an unfunded mentor to the lead provider via the API, because they would not be funded for providing her with mentor training.

Laura's details are shown to the lead provider via the API so they can set her up in their learning platform to support Bob. The lead provider could identify Laura as Bob's mentor by using the 'mentor_id' for Bob in 'GET /participants'.

### What an unfunded mentor isn't
An unfunded mentor is not:

- a mentor who a lead provider is currently training
- a mentor who a lead provider used to train but is no longer training

> For example, if a lead provider used to provide mentor training for a mentor named Sarah, and she completed training but was still actively mentoring ECTs, she would:

Author: ```suggestion

For example, if a lead provider used to provide mentor training for a mentor named Sarah, and she completed training but was still actively mentoring ECTs, she would:
```

---

> title: Understanding unfunded mentors

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Understanding the unfunded mentors endpoint
```

Speaking to Nathan, we just use it for the API - so we want to make it clearer as it's not used contractually. Is this okay?

Author: The title works, but the length makes it display over two lines.

Perhaps "Using the unfunded mentors endpoint"?

<img width="623" height="642" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/e25a1e47-ec62-440a-b4a6-abcca3985e78" />

Reviewer: Works for me :)

Author: ```suggestion
title: Using the unfunded mentors endpoint
```

sidebar_position: 12
---
This guidance explains:

> - what an unfunded mentor is

Reviewer: ```suggestion

- what an unfunded mentor response is on the API
```

> - how to identify an unfunded mentor

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- how to identify an unfunded mentor on the API
```

## What is an unfunded mentor?

> Unfunded mentors are mentors who are mentoring ECTs that a lead provider trains, but are not eligible for funded training through that lead provider. This is typically because they have already completed mentor training, or are currently doing so, with a different lead provider.

Author: ```suggestion
Unfunded mentors are mentors who are mentoring ECTs that a lead provider trains, but whose mentor training is or was not funded through that lead provider. This is typically because they have already completed mentor training, or are currently doing so, with a different lead provider.
```

This suggestion was agreed with Colin following his comment here: https://github.com/DFE-Digital/register-early-career-teachers-public/pull/2572#issuecomment-4235111896

Reviewer: made a slight tweak after suggestion from Nathan on 'is or was' not funded. You happy with that?

> Lead providers will be funded to give these mentors access to learning materials and platforms so that they can support ECTs they are mentoring.

Author: This may need to change, following Colin's comment here: https://github.com/DFE-Digital/register-early-career-teachers-public/pull/2572#issuecomment-4235146974

Copied here for easy reference: "@tashonrp I think the 2nd paragraph will need amending too as 'Access Fees' only apply for ECF - they've been scrapped for ECTE (SRM have confirmed any access or support they need is covered by the ECT fee).

May want to run the final wording past SRM"

Reviewer: Colin is right:

'Lead providers will be funded to give these mentors access to learning materials and platforms so that they can support ECTs they are mentoring in cohorts before 2025. In 2025 or later, the funding is included as part of the fee for training ECTs.'

Author: ```suggestion
Lead providers will be funded to give these mentors access to learning materials and platforms so that they can support ECTs they are mentoring in cohorts before 2025.

From 2025, the funding is included as part of the fee for training ECTs.
```

For example, a lead provider might be training an ECT named Bob. Bob is assigned Laura as a mentor. Laura has already completed training with a different lead provider. As a result, she would appear as an unfunded mentor to the lead provider via the API, because they would not be funded for providing her with mentor training.

Laura's details are shown to the lead provider via the API so they can set her up in their learning platform to support Bob. The lead provider could identify Laura as Bob's mentor by using the 'mentor_id' for Bob in 'GET /participants'.

### What an unfunded mentor isn't
An unfunded mentor is not:

- a mentor who a lead provider is currently training
- a mentor who a lead provider used to train but is no longer training

For example, if a lead provider used to provide mentor training for a mentor named Sarah, and she completed training but was still actively mentoring ECTs, she would:

- no longer be eligible for any more funded training
- still require access to learning platforms or systems to support any ECTs the lead provider was training that she continued to mentor

> The lead provider was previously funded for her training, so she would not appear via the 'GET /unfunded-mentors' endpoint. Lead providers could identify Sarah as the mentor for ECTs they were training by using the 'mentor_id' for those ECTs in 'GET /participants'.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The lead provider was previously funded for her training, so she would not appear via the 'GET /unfunded-mentors' endpoint. She would still appear in the 'GET /participants' endpoint.

Lead providers could identify Sarah as the mentor for ECTs they were training by using the 'mentor_id' for those ECTs in 'GET /participants'.
```
